Metadata API changes (#2934)
fishtown-analytics/docs.getdbt.com: website/docs/docs/dbt-cloud-apis/access-metadata-api.md

---
title: "Access the Metadata API"
id: "access-metadata-api"
---

> Use the Metadata API to evaluate data health in the long-term or at a moment-in-time. This section will explain how to access and query the Metadata API and what you'll need.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the Metadata API to evaluate data health in the long term or at a moment in time. This section will explain how to access and query the Metadata API and what you'll need.
```

<Snippet src="metadata-api-prerequisites" />

> We provide a [graphical explorer](https://metadata.cloud.getdbt.com/graphql) for this API where you can run ad-hoc queries or browse the schema. As GraphQL provides a self-describing API, the schema shown in the GraphiQL interface is an accurate representation of the graph and fields available to query. 

Reviewer: Should this say "We provide a GraphQL explorer..." since we're using a product name?

Author: we can! this was existing content and i haven't rewritten the existing docs but I'll update that

> We provide a [graphical explorer](https://metadata.cloud.getdbt.com/graphql) for this API where you can run ad-hoc queries or browse the schema. As GraphQL provides a self-describing API, the schema shown in the GraphiQL interface is an accurate representation of the graph and fields available to query. 

Author: ```suggestion
We provide a [GraphQL explorer](https://metadata.cloud.getdbt.com/graphql) for this API where you can run ad-hoc queries or browse the schema. As GraphQL provides a self-describing API, the schema shown in the GraphiQL interface is an accurate representation of the graph and fields available to query. 
```

> We provide a [GraphQL explorer](https://metadata.cloud.getdbt.com/graphql) for this API where you can run ad-hoc queries or browse the schema. As GraphQL provides a self-describing API, the schema shown in the GraphiQL interface is an accurate representation of the graph and fields available to query. 

Reviewer: Adding a little clarity to the ideas the statement is trying to express.

```suggestion
We provide a [GraphQL explorer](https://metadata.cloud.getdbt.com/graphql) for this API, enabling you to run ad-hoc queries or browse the schema. As GraphQL provides a description of the data in the API, the schema shown in the GraphiQL interface accurately represents the graph and fields available to query. 
```

1. Create a [service account token](/docs/dbt-cloud-apis/service-tokens) to authorize requests. dbt Cloud Admin users can generate a _Metadata Only_ service token, which can be used to execute a specific query against the Metadata API for authorization of requests.

2. Access the API by using the endpoint `https://metadata.{YOUR_ACCESS_URL}/graphql`. 

>     * Replace `{YOUR_ACCESS_URL}` with the appropriate [Access URL](/docs/deploy/regions-ip-addresses) for your region and plan. For example, if your region is North America using multi tenant, your endpoint is `https://metadata.cloud.getdbt.com/graphql`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * Replace `{YOUR_ACCESS_URL}` with the appropriate [Access URL](/docs/deploy/regions-ip-addresses) for your region and plan. For example, if your multi-tenant region is North America, your endpoint is `https://metadata.cloud.getdbt.com/graphql`.
```

3. Go to the [GraphQL API](https://metadata.cloud.getdbt.com/graphql) sandbox, which supports arbitrary queries. 

> 4. To begin querying the Metadata API, refer to the [query documentation](/docs/dbt-cloud-apis/metadata-querying.md) for details on how to use GraphiQL.

Reviewer: Should we explain the difference between GraphQL and GraphiQL somewhere in this doc, for the folks who are new to this?

Author: yep good shout!

Author: i've reworked this section and moved some content to the top - what do you think @matthewshaver ?

Reviewer 2: We should just say GraphQL. GraphiQL just refers to that IDE

5. For specific query points, refer to the [schema documentation](/docs/dbt-cloud-apis/metadata-schema-model). 

## Retention limits

> You can use the metadata API to query data from the previous three months. For example, if today was April 1st, you could query data back to January 1st.

Reviewer: For the purpose of specificity, is it actually held for 3 months or 90 days? The language is often used interchangeably but we should note exactly how long data is held (months vary in length).

Author: @cafzal can you confirm if users can query data from the previous 3 months or 90 days?

Reviewer 2: 3 months

---
title: "Access the Metadata API"
id: "access-metadata-api"
---

> Use the Metadata API to evaluate data health in the long term or at a moment in time. We provide a [GraphQL explorer](https://metadata.cloud.getdbt.com/graphql) for this API, enabling you to run ad-hoc queries or browse the schema. GraphQL is a data query language for application APIs and GraphiQL is an in-browser IDE for exploring GraphQL. 

Author: ```suggestion
Use the Metadata API to evaluate data health in the long term or at a moment in time. We provide a [GraphQL explorer](https://metadata.cloud.getdbt.com/graphql) for this API, enabling you to run ad-hoc queries or browse the schema. 
```
